The next part is adding onto
the concepts that we talked about.
So Vuex is useful when used in
the context of other pieces, so
Vuex is useful in the context of Vue,
obviously.
But Vuex is also useful when using
other parts of the Vue ecosystem,
like Vue Router.
So for example,
you might have an application and
we looked at the application on the right,
the screenshot on the right,
which is just a list of all machines.
Let's assume that we want to put
a login screen in the top of it, so
only admin and
people with a certain username and
password can log in to see
this particular screen.
So this is one instance in which
Vue Router is really useful because it has
the ability for you to manage how
users flow through the applications.
You also are able to protect routes, so
users without certain permissions or
users who are not logged in cannot
access parts of the application
that are protected and secure.
So here we have a login screen and
then we have the,
we'll call it a quote
unquote admin screen as well.
And this is not a course on Vue Router,
so I won't actually talk
about Vue Router a lot, except for
some pieces here and there.
But I'll be talking about
in the context of Vuex, so
there'll be some pieces of Vue Router.
Don't worry if you don't
fully understand Vue Router,
you don't need mastery of it to use it.
For this instance, I'm using
Vue Router by importing Vue Router,
it's essentially a module, so I'm
importing it, and then I'm doing Vue.use.
And if you remember from the Vuex
code that I showed you, it's not much
different because Vue has to use Vuex,
so it has to also use Vue Router.
So your router code is where you
initialize all of the routes in your
application.
Generally speaking,
you do this only if you want fine grained
control over the routes, which again can
be really useful if you want to
manage the flow of the application.
So here, I'm defining two routes because
I currently only have two screens.
I have a admin screen, which is called
Dashboard, and then I have a login screen,
which is called LoginScreen.
And so again, those two,
the path is / and /login respectively.
And then once I have my router defined so
it's in a router.js file, let's say,
I can include that into my main.js, very
similar to how I'm including the store.
I'm just parsing it into the Vue instance,
I'm parsing
router straight into the instance, so
that's how you use router in a nutshell.
And again, I want to focus a little
bit on the parts of how you can hook
up your router to use Vuex,
which can be really useful as
your application grows in size and
becomes more complex.
So here, we have the different pieces
of what you can parse to your route.
Routes is an array of routes essentially,
so
path is the path that the URL use
essentially like /, or /login.
And I parse in the component as well,
so the component is Dashboard,
cuz that's the specific
component I want to be loading.
And another piece of Vue Router,
I know I mentioned,
I wasn't gonna go into Vue Router.
But I think this is a really useful and
handy concept as you work
your way through Vue Router and
Vuex, is navigation guards.
And this is a slightly more advanced
concept but bear with me here, it will
be incredibly handy as we work through
these applications and these concepts.
So I'm gonna talk about
per-route navigation guards,
which is the ability for
you to gate a specific route.
So irregardless of whatever other
components and other routes do,
I'm only defining my Dashboard
route which is supposedly admin
specific to have these navigation guards.
So it doesn't check before
it lets people through, and
so before enter is called,
the per-route navigation guard.
And so it takes into from a next, again,
I won't go into much detail here.
But one thing to note is that
I'm just adding navigation guard
to my Dashboard component
because it's admin.
And then here's where I'm actually
utilizing my store because I'm
trying to access whether or
not a user has been logged in.
So let's assume that I have
a getter called isLoggedIn,
I'm not using modules here,
it's just a global namespace.
You can feel free to use
modules if you like, but
the concept stands that you can use
Vuex modules in Vue Router quite easily.
I'm just checking to make sure
that a user is logged in.
And if they are logged in,
what next does is it essentially
lets a user pass through.
So you're not telling it to go anywhere,
you're just allowing it to pass through.
The else clause here is telling
a user where to go in the event that
a user is not logged in.
So if a user is not logged in,
you have to pass them to the /login page.